---
layout: post
title: Drop User in Oracle Database
category : Oracle
tags : [Oracle, Database, DBA]
---

Drop User in Oracle Database

Use the `DROP USER` statement to remove a database user and optionally remove the 
user's objects. 

When you drop a user, Oracle Database also purges all of that user's schema 
objects from the recycle bin.

##Prerequisites 

You must have the DROP USER system privilege. 

##syntax

	DROP USER user [cascade];

##semantics

* user

	Specify the user to be dropped. Oracle Database does not drop users whose 
	schemas contain objects unless you specify CASCADE or unless you first 
	explicitly drop the user's objects.

* CASCADE 

	Specify CASCADE to drop all objects in the user's schema before dropping the 
	user. You must specify this clause to drop a user whose schema contains any 
	objects. 
	
	■ If the user's schema contains tables, then Oracle Database drops the tables 
	and automatically drops any referential integrity constraints on tables in 
	other schemas that refer to primary and unique keys on these tables. 

	■ If this clause results in tables being dropped, then the database also 
	drops all domain indexes created on columns of those tables and invokes 
	appropriate drop routines. 

	■ Oracle Database invalidates, but does not drop, the following objects in 
	other schemas:

		– Views or synonyms for objects in the dropped user's schema
		– Stored procedures, functions, or packages that query objects in the 
		dropped user's schema

	■ Oracle Database does not drop materialized views in other schemas that are 
	based on tables in the dropped user's schema. However, because the base 
	tables no longer exist, the materialized views in the other schemas can no 
	longer be refreshed.

	■ Oracle Database drops all triggers in the user's schema.

	■ Oracle Database does not drop roles created by the user. 

##Examples

Dropping a Database User: Example   If user Sidney's schema contains no objects, 
then you can drop sidney by issuing the statement:

	DROP USER sidney; 

If Sidney's schema contains objects, then you must use the CASCADE clause to 
drop sidney and the objects:
	
	DROP USER sidney CASCADE; 

##Reference

* Oracle Database Adminstrator
